# Week 41 - Prototyping

Another week has passed and we are making progress with our project. We met
again on Monday and narrowed down our scope once more online research about
cooling technologies was done. Out of cooling wearables, headwear was what we
decided on as it makes the most sense: the head is the most exposed to the sun,
and should be protected from the sun in any case. The body transfers out heat
mainly via blood vessels close to the skin, and the neck and temples are
accessible from a device worn on the head.

**The problem our group is trying to solve** is how to best cool a person down
with solar panels.


**User’s experience of the problem**

Heat is uncomfortable and leads to tiredness, sweating, embarrassment, and even
heat stroke. In heavy sun and heat, activities such as sports have to be cut
short. Batteries are heavy and bulky and worsen the effects of heat, and are
thus unsuited for wearable devices.


The problem our end-user has is that they suffering from heat outside, which
limits them in their activities.


**Value Proposition**

Our product provides refreshing cooling in sunny conditions in a simple and
easy-to-use package. You simply put the cap on, and it works automatically.
After you take it off, there is no maintenance required and no batteries to
change.


**Infographic**

After we had narrowed down the problem, we could start working on the
solutions.  Below are a couple of illustrations we made based on our first
ideas for solutions for the problem. So here we present the cooling cap, a
baseball cap that is covered with solar panels, conducting electricity to a
thermoelectric cooling element. We’re leaning towards a peltier elements, since
they are small, silent and durable. The downside is of course that peltier
elements are quite inefficient.


![cap1](https://coumbole.github.io/resources/cap1.jpg)


![cap1](https://coumbole.github.io/resources/cap2.jpg)


![cap1](https://coumbole.github.io/resources/cap3.jpg)


We put the solar panels on areas on the cap that are facing upwards to get as
much sunlight exposure as possible. We also made sure to leave the area where
the thermoelectric element will be uncovered (no solar panels), so that the
heat from the element can radiate out of the cap easier.  This prototype could
be developed further by modelling how the electric wires would travel in the
cap.


We’re excited at how our project is coming along! The next step would be to try
to contact potential end users for some feedback on our ideas and concepts. But
we’ll leave that story for our next blog post.
